Practical no 12

Build AWS Lambda using API Gateway

      
Description of Practical: -

In this practical we will learn to build AWS Lambda function using API Gateway.
In order to perform this practical we will take an example.
The example is EMI Calculator.  

EMI Calculator

Steps

Login into AWS Console.
Search for Lambda Function on the service bar.
Here we will create a lambda function for the practical. 
Click on Create Function on the Lambda Tab.
Here we will choose Author from Scratch.
After selecting that write the function name as lambda-emi-calc
We will be running the code on python 3.7 
So, we will choose runtime as python 3.7.
After that click on create function.
We will see that it has created lambda function with basic default code.
We can see that it has created lambda function with basic default code
Next step is to enter the emi calculator python code



Save the lambda function

We are not defining any environment variable

Select basic setting and choose runtime as python 3.7
Next step is to create api gateway

We are going to choose REST API
Click on new API
In the settings tab do the following changes

API name = EmiCalcApi

Description = EmiCalcApi

Endpoint type = Regional

Click on create tab

Next step click on action then create resource
Enter resource name as emi

And create the resource
Now select on action tab and create method

Use get parameter

We are using integration type as Lambda Function

Enter lambda function as lambda-emi-calc

Save the changes

Grant permission for lambda function
Next step is to click on action and then deploy api
Enter deployment stage as New Stage

Enter stage name as dev

Stage description as dev

Deployment description as dev

After that click on GET method
Copy the URL
To calculate the EMI we have to place valid parameters

We have 3 parameters

Principle = p
Rate = r
Time = t

Add the follow to the copied url

?p= certain value for eg 10000

Then add rate (r) as certain value 2.8 and the final value time as 10

emi?p=10000&r=2.8&t=10

Click on enter and you will have your required emi