 PRACTICAL 5

Create an AKS cluster
a. From the portal
Step 1: Sign in to the Azure portal at https://portal.azure.com. 
Step 2: On the Azure portal menu or from the Home page, select Create a resource.
Step 3: Select Containers > Kubernetes Service.
Step 4: On the Basics page, configure the following options:
Project details: Select an Azure Subscription, then select or create an Azure Resource group, such as myResourceGroup.
Cluster details: Enter a Kubernetes cluster name, such as myCluster. Select a Region and Kubernetes version for the AKS cluster.
Primary node pool: Select a VM Node size for the AKS nodes. The VM size can't be changed once an AKS cluster has been deployed. - Select the number of nodes to deploy into the cluster. Set Node count to 1. Node count can be adjusted after the cluster has been deployed.
Select Next: Node pools when complete.
Step 5: On the Node pools page, keep the default options. At the bottom of the screen, click Next: Authentication. 

Step 6: On the Authentication page, configure the following options:
Create a new service principal by leaving the Service Principal field with (new) default service principal. Or you can choose Configure service principal to use an existing one. If you use an existing one, you will need to provide the SPN client ID and secret.
Enable the option for Kubernetes role-based access control (Kubernetes RBAC). This will provide more fine-grained control over access to the Kubernetes resources deployed in your AKS cluster
Step 7: By default, Basic networking, Integrations and tags is used, and Azure Monitor for containers is enabled.
 Click Review + create and then Create when validation completes.

Step 8: It takes a few minutes to create the AKS cluster. When your deployment is complete, click Go to resource, or browse to the AKS cluster resource group, such as myResourceGroup, and select the AKS resource, such as myCluster. The AKS cluster dashboard is shown below:
b.From azure CLI
Step 1:  Install the Azure CLI to run CLI reference commands.
Step 2: Sign in to the Azure CLI by using the az login command. To finish the authentication process, follow the steps displayed in your terminal. 
Step 3: Run az version to find the version and dependent libraries that are installed. To upgrade to the latest version, run az upgrade.
Step 4: An Azure resource group is a logical group in which Azure resources are deployed and managed. When you create a resource group, you are asked to specify a location. This location is where resource group metadata is stored, it is also where your resources run in Azure if you don't specify another region during resource creation. Create a resource group using the az group create command.
Step 5: The following example creates a resource group named myResourceGroup in the centralindia location.

az group create --name myResourceGroup --location centralindia 

Output similar to the following example indicates the resource group has been created successfully:
Step 6: Use the az aks create command to create an AKS cluster. The following example creates a cluster named myAKSCluster with one node. This will take several minutes to complete.
az aks create --resource-group myResourceGroup --name myAKSCluster --node-count 1 --enable-addons monitoring --generate-ssh-keys 

After a few minutes, the command completes and returns JSON-formatted information about the cluster.
