p4a - AIM : Automate any process using basic recording. 
Theory :
Recording is an important part of UiPath Studio, that can help you save a lot of time when
automating your business processes. This functionality enables you to easily capture a user’s 
actions on the screen and translates them into sequences.
These projects can be modified and parameterized so that you can easily replay and reuse 
them in as many other processes as you need.
All user interface elements are highlighted while you record, as you can see in the following 
screenshot, so that you can be sure the correct buttons, fields or menus are selected.
Steps: 
Recording steps to send an email
1. Create a new sequence.
2. On the top in the ribbon, click on the recording option. A drop down will appear.
3. Select web recording option from the dropdown.
4. Open the Google chrome window.
5. Start recording
6. On the chrome window, click on gmail link
7. After clicking on gmail link, the gmail webpage opens. Click on compose.
8. After compose, a box appears to enter the mail.
9. Click on the To: option and enter the email address you want the mail to send to
10. After adding the receiver’s email address, press enter
11. Click on the body of the email and add any text and click on send
12. Press esc and click on save and exit
13. Run the automation and check the output




p4b - AIM : Automate any process using desktop recording. 
STEPS :
1. Open Notepad.
2. In UiPath Studio, create a new sequence.
3. a. In the Design ribbon tab, in the Wizards group, select Record > Basic. The Basic 
Recording toolbar is displayed and the main view is minimized.
b. In the Design ribbon tab, in the Wizards group, select Record > Desktop. The Desktop 
Recording toolbar is displayed and the main view is minimized.
4. In the Wizards group, click Automatic Recorder. The automating recording process starts.
5. In Notepad, click on the main panel. A pop-up window is displayed.
6. Type a custom text and press Enter. The string is displayed in Notepad.
7. From the Format menu, select Font. The Font window is displayed.
8. Select a different font style, such as Bold Italic, and click OK.
9. Press Esc two times. You exit the recording view and the saved project is displayed in 
the Designer panel.
10. Press F5. The automation is executed as expected.
11. Add an Open Application activity between Excel Application Scope and the Recording 
sequence.
12. Use Indicate window on screen to select the active Notepad window.
13. Place the Recording sequence inside the Open Application activity.
14. Add a Close Application activity after Open Application.
15. Use Indicate window on screen again to select the active Notepad window to be closed.
16. Make sure the OffsetX and OffsetY properties (Cursor Position) are empty.
What was added to the project should look as in the following screenshot.







p4c - AIM : Automate any process using web recording. 
STEPS :
1. Open an Internet Explorer instance and navigate to https://academy.uipath.com.
2. In UiPath Studio, create a new sequence.
3. Add an Open Browser activity to the Designer panel.
4. Select the activity and, in the Url field, write https://academy.uipath.com.
5. In the Design tab, in the Wizards group, select Recording > Web. The Web Recording toolbar 
is displayed and the main view is minimized.
6. Click Record. The automating recording process starts.
7. In Internet Explorer, click Login/ Sign up, and then select Continue with Email.
8. Enter your email address and password.
9. Click Login and press Esc two times. The recording is saved and displayed in the Designer panel.
10. Close Internet Explorer manually.
11. In Studio, add a Close Tab activity as the last activity in the Attach Browser container.
12. Press F5. The automation is executed as expected.




